docs/extendingintrospection.rst, before:


.. _extending-introspection:

Extending Introspection
=======================

South's introspector, by default, only knows about core Django fields.
However, you can extend the introspector with rules for your own custom fields,
or those of third-party apps, if you wish.

Be aware that the rule-based introspector doesn't support every possible kind of
way constructor arguments are stored; if you require something very flexible,
look at using :ref:`south-field-triple` instead.

There are two different parts to the introspector, rules and field name
patterns. To extend the introspector's abilities, simply call
``south.modelsinspector.add_introspection_rules(rules=[], patterns=[])`` with a
list of rules, a list of patterns, or more commonly, both.

Rules
-----

Rules are what make up the crux of the introspector. They consist of a
class/classes to which the rules apply (the rules will be run for the class
and any field which subclasses it), and a set of 'rules' for positional and
keyword arguments. (In practice, South doesn't use the positional argument
functionality, and we encourage you not to).

A rule is a triple::

    (
        (models.ForeignKey, models.OneToOneField),
        [],
        {
            "to": ["rel.to", {}],
            "to_field": ["rel.field_name", {"default_attr": "rel.to._meta.pk.name"}],
            "related_name": ["rel.related_name", {"default": None}],
            "db_index": ["db_index", {"default": True}],
        },
    )

The first element is a tuple of either the names of, or actual, matching
classes (or superclasses), the second is the positional argument rules
(value rules in a list), and the third is the keyword argument rules
(a dictionary, with the keyword argument name as the key, and the
value rules as the value).

Value rules themselves are a list of two things; the first is the attribute
of the field to look at for the value of the rule (for example, "rel.to" or
"db_index" - you can include dots to traverse downwards), and the second is
a dict of parameters. If you don't have those, South will always put the value
of that attribute as the value for that keyword; the parameters are usually
there to allow an attribute to be omitted for clarity.

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^

 - default: The default value of this field (directly as a Python object).
   If the value retrieved ends up being this, the keyword will be omitted
   from the frozen result. For example, the base Field class' "null" attribute
   has {'default':False}, so it's usually omitted, much like in the models.
 - default_attr: Similar to default, but the value given is another attribute
   to compare to for the default. This is used in to_field above, as this
   attribute's default value is the other model's pk name.
 - default_attr_concat: For when your default value is even more complex,
   default_attr_concat is a list where the first element is a format string,
   and the rest is a list of attribute names whose values should be formatted into the string.
 - ignore_if: Specifies an attribute that, if it coerces to true, causes this
   keyword to be omitted. Useful for ``db_index``, which has
   ``{'ignore_if': 'primary_key'}``, since it's always True in that case.
 
 
Field name patterns
-------------------

A list of regexes; if a field's full name (module plus class name) matches a
field name pattern, it is introspected, else it is parsed. This is needed
because of the subclass-following of the rules - for example, if you subclass
a Django field and change it, the introspector shouldn't try to introspect it.

Example (this is the default South list)::

    [
        "^django\.db",
        "^django\.contrib\.contenttypes\.generic",
        "^django\.contrib\.localflavor",
    ]

Examples
--------
    
For an example, see the GeoDjango rules module in South core,
or even the core rules in the inspector module.

Caveats
-------

If you have a custom field which adds other fields to the model dynamically
(i.e. it overrides contribute_to_class and adds more fields onto the model),
you'll need to write your introspection rules appropriately, to make South
ignore the extra fields at migration-freezing time, or to add a flag to your
field which tells it not to make the new fields again. An example can be
found `here <http://bitbucket.org/carljm/django-markitup/src/tip/markitup/fields.py#cl-68>`_.

.. _south-field-triple:

south_field_triple
==================

There are some cases where introspection of fields just isn't enough;
for example, field classes which dynamically change their database column
type based on options, or other odd things.

Note: :ref:`Extending the introspector <extending-introspection>` is often far
cleaner and easier than this method.

The method to implement for these fields is ``south_field_triple()``.

It should return the standard triple of::

 ('full.path.to.SomeFieldClass', ['positionalArg1', '"positionalArg2"'], {'kwarg':'"value"'})

(this is the same format used by the :ref:`ORM Freezer <orm-freezing>`;
South will just use your output verbatim).

Note that the strings are ones that will be passed into eval, so for this
reason, a variable reference would be ``'foo'`` while a string
would be ``'"foo"'``.

Example
-------

Here's an example of this method for django-modeltranslation's TranslationField.
This custom field stores the type it's wrapping in an attribute of itself,
so we'll just use that::

    def south_field_triple(self):
        "Returns a suitable description of this field for South."
        # We'll just introspect the _actual_ field.
        from south.modelsinspector import introspector
        field_class = self.translated_field.__class__.__module__ + "." + self.translated_field.__class__.__name__
        args, kwargs = introspector(self.translated_field)
        # That's our definition!
        return (field_class, args, kwargs)

Commit message:

Add is_value introspector option and docs.

docs/extendingintrospection.rst, after:


.. _extending-introspection:

Extending Introspection
=======================

South's introspector, by default, only knows about core Django fields.
However, you can extend the introspector with rules for your own custom fields,
or those of third-party apps, if you wish.

Be aware that the rule-based introspector doesn't support every possible kind of
way constructor arguments are stored; if you require something very flexible,
look at using :ref:`south-field-triple` instead.

There are two different parts to the introspector, rules and field name
patterns. To extend the introspector's abilities, simply call
``south.modelsinspector.add_introspection_rules(rules=[], patterns=[])`` with a
list of rules, a list of patterns, or more commonly, both.

Rules
-----

Rules are what make up the crux of the introspector. They consist of a
class/classes to which the rules apply (the rules will be run for the class
and any field which subclasses it), and a set of 'rules' for positional and
keyword arguments. (In practice, South doesn't use the positional argument
functionality, and we encourage you not to).

A rule is a triple::

    (
        (models.ForeignKey, models.OneToOneField),
        [],
        {
            "to": ["rel.to", {}],
            "to_field": ["rel.field_name", {"default_attr": "rel.to._meta.pk.name"}],
            "related_name": ["rel.related_name", {"default": None}],
            "db_index": ["db_index", {"default": True}],
        },
    )

The first element is a tuple of either the names of, or actual, matching
classes (or superclasses), the second is the positional argument rules
(value rules in a list), and the third is the keyword argument rules
(a dictionary, with the keyword argument name as the key, and the
value rules as the value).

Value rules themselves are a list of two things; the first is the attribute
of the field to look at for the value of the rule (for example, "rel.to" or
"db_index" - you can include dots to traverse downwards), and the second is
a dict of parameters. If you don't have those, South will always put the value
of that attribute as the value for that keyword; the parameters are usually
there to allow an attribute to be omitted for clarity.

.. _is-value-keyword:

The one special case is the ``is_value`` keyword; if this is present and True,
then the first item in the list will be interpreted as the actual value, rather
than the attribute path to it on the field. For example::

 "frozen_by_south": [True, {"is_value": True}],

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^

 - default: The default value of this field (directly as a Python object).
   If the value retrieved ends up being this, the keyword will be omitted
   from the frozen result. For example, the base Field class' "null" attribute
   has {'default':False}, so it's usually omitted, much like in the models.
 - default_attr: Similar to default, but the value given is another attribute
   to compare to for the default. This is used in to_field above, as this
   attribute's default value is the other model's pk name.
 - default_attr_concat: For when your default value is even more complex,
   default_attr_concat is a list where the first element is a format string,
   and the rest is a list of attribute names whose values should be formatted into the string.
 - ignore_if: Specifies an attribute that, if it coerces to true, causes this
   keyword to be omitted. Useful for ``db_index``, which has
   ``{'ignore_if': 'primary_key'}``, since it's always True in that case.
 - is_value: If present, the 'attribute name' is instead used directly as the
   value. See :ref:`above <is-value-keyword>` for more info.
 
 
Field name patterns
-------------------

A list of regexes; if a field's full name (module plus class name) matches a
field name pattern, it is introspected, else it is parsed. This is needed
because of the subclass-following of the rules - for example, if you subclass
a Django field and change it, the introspector shouldn't try to introspect it.

Example (this is the default South list)::

    [
        "^django\.db",
        "^django\.contrib\.contenttypes\.generic",
        "^django\.contrib\.localflavor",
    ]

Examples
--------
    
For an example, see the GeoDjango rules module in South core,
or even the core rules in the inspector module.

Caveats
-------

If you have a custom field which adds other fields to the model dynamically
(i.e. it overrides contribute_to_class and adds more fields onto the model),
you'll need to write your introspection rules appropriately, to make South
ignore the extra fields at migration-freezing time, or to add a flag to your
field which tells it not to make the new fields again. An example can be
found `here <http://bitbucket.org/carljm/django-markitup/src/tip/markitup/fields.py#cl-68>`_.

.. _south-field-triple:

south_field_triple
==================

There are some cases where introspection of fields just isn't enough;
for example, field classes which dynamically change their database column
type based on options, or other odd things.

Note: :ref:`Extending the introspector <extending-introspection>` is often far
cleaner and easier than this method.

The method to implement for these fields is ``south_field_triple()``.

It should return the standard triple of::

 ('full.path.to.SomeFieldClass', ['positionalArg1', '"positionalArg2"'], {'kwarg':'"value"'})

(this is the same format used by the :ref:`ORM Freezer <orm-freezing>`;
South will just use your output verbatim).

Note that the strings are ones that will be passed into eval, so for this
reason, a variable reference would be ``'foo'`` while a string
would be ``'"foo"'``.

Example
-------

Here's an example of this method for django-modeltranslation's TranslationField.
This custom field stores the type it's wrapping in an attribute of itself,
so we'll just use that::

    def south_field_triple(self):
        "Returns a suitable description of this field for South."
        # We'll just introspect the _actual_ field.
        from south.modelsinspector import introspector
        field_class = self.translated_field.__class__.__module__ + "." + self.translated_field.__class__.__name__
        args, kwargs = introspector(self.translated_field)
        # That's our definition!
        return (field_class, args, kwargs)
